WormAI TODO list
================

In OpenTTD 14 AddSetting in info.nut was changed.
No more easy, medium, hard value, instead you set a "default"value and
optionally a deviation that randomizes the value at startup.
If you leave easy, medium, hard it does:
"if you used easy/medium/hard it's converted to default = medium and
 random deviation = (hard-easy) / 2"
When we start using this we should set minimum API version to 14.
See: see https://docs.openttd.org/ai-api/classAIInfo

BUG/IMPROVEMENT:
Shorter timeout for train track building. Samu showed on IRC that it took 5 years before
WormAI timed out trying to find a connection between 2 stations with only water in between.
[might be fixed by fixing the 90 degree bug in pathfinder]


Features
--------
+ Implement a pause AI option ingame
  See: http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=29&t=67201
+ Possibly per ai setting of max vehicles?
+ Ignore towns/industries used by competitors setting

+ Make extended class WormAIEngine that Extends AIEngine with:
  - GetName that first checks for null engine where AIEngine.GetName crashes script, etc...
+ For selecting towns instead of based on population maybe select on fastest growing.
  Possibly only when we selected Fast mode.


Trains:
+ Use maybe a combination of what SimpleAI and FastPTPAI do with trains.
  FastPTPAI starts very fast with long cargo routes but single tracked so they
  can't handle more than 1 train but bring in cash pretty fast.
  SimpleAI seems to be pretty smart about good double track routes. However
  multiple lines going to same destination (factory) should use the same destination
  station if possible. Also it maybe does not allow diffeences in train length or changing
  that depending on situation?

+ AIR: min/max route length should (also) depend on map size. On a smaller map like 512x512
  a minimum of say not more than 100?
  CHANGE: the AI settings for min/max to something like short/medium/long where
  we compute ourselves what that exactly will be depending on the circumstances.
+ Also check at loading whether there are any stations that are not in our list
  anymore, maybe only when we are debugging.
+ Also: In early games with low maximum speeds we may need to adjust maximum and
  maybe even minimum distance to get a round trip within a year.
+ MOVE HeadQuarters if we remove our station near the city where the HQ are.
+ We need another look at airplane crashing. It seems to me there's still a lot of
  crashes. But maybe it's just because we have a lot of airplanes.
+ Airports: Compute max airports we should use not only based on max airplanes but
  also on the best type of airport we can use. Since newer ones can handle more planes.
+ Max distance should also depend on the speed of our chosen airplane/capacity, and
  possibly also on breakdowns being on/off.

+ CLIMATES
  We need to add support for sub-tropic and arctic since WormAI does not perform
  too well there especially sub-tropic since towns need water and food.

ENDGAME
+ When we cant seem to add any more aircraft or airfields think of other things to do with our
  time and money. If we are not maxed out with planes etc than start looking for less obvious places
  or possibly other cargo. Or start making other routes reuising the already available airfields.

I was going to separate all global consts into a separate unit but loading that with
require doesn't seem to work: the consts values give: the index does not exist.
So for now we keep the consts either in main.nut or in the file where we need them.

AIR
  When starting allow for more airports per max trains but after we have reached a certain
  amount of airplanes start removing the worst performers. but after we have a certain amount
  of airports increase the acceptance limit again so we don't get only poor performant spots.
  Also start weeding out not so well performing airplanes a little before we reach max
  airplanes instead of waiting until we are maxed out.
AIR
- If an airplane is performing considerably worse than the current best airplane think of
  upgrading even if it's making a profit, but only if we have a reasonable amount of money on hand.

TRAINS
  Later in game if we have a reasonable amount of money on hand make stations longer and/or
  all lines double or even completely double.
- BuildHQ + Statues for trains (air might be turned off!).
- On slow setting don't build stations if there is already taken away some.
- On medium only i a little is taken.
- If we have a reasonable amount of money try to optimize rail paths by finding unnecessary
  corners especially near passing loops and stations.
- If several trans on a line get sent to depot for lengthening at the same time and they are waiting
  there for a while waiting cargo will increase meaning that as soon as they get lengthened there
  still may be a lot of cargo waiting causing them to be sent to depot again to be lengthened
  again. If they just got lengthened we should wait a while before sending them to depot again for lengthening or adding trains.
- Optimal profits for trains should take into account that we have shorter and longer trains.
  Just using 30% (or whatever) will cause most of the short train stations to be killed off.
  Which might be ok if there is still a lot of playing room but on a map that's already very
  crowded we might have troubel realizing enough better routes with longer stations.
- If we build a route for wood. We should follow it up with a route that gets the goods produced from the wood.
  Making trains for secondary products like goods depends on enough primary material cargo brought.
  Take that into account when deciding about making those trains longer.
- If it appears that a station can also receive other cargo than the targeted, maybe make a bigger
  statin and also start transporting the other cargos from there.
- longer trains can have a hard time pulling a lot of full cargo wagons depending on settings
  we might need to check if we need extra engines for pulling

EVERYTHING:
- In idle moments run/continue a MapÉxplorer class that explores the map in a 16x 16 or something grid
  possibly to identify big areas of water and huge height differences
  For huge maps maybe explore a 128 x 128 grid area or user definable area first

SELECTING ROAD AI:
+ Should preferrably also support TRAMS

IMPROVEMENTS:
- Better support for Industry sets. Especially NUTS seems to work poorly atm.
- Better support for Subtropic climate and arctic
- Take advantage of NewGRF vehicles even if for trains they have unusual lengths

BUGS
----
* MEDIUM - After loading some vehicles are not part of the airports list anymore.
  Possibly because the save happened in the middle of airport route removal/change.
  NB: Not sure if the above is caused by old saves that were made before code
  was correctly updated for handling airport removal. Should start a new game
  and test again.
  Also check at loading for airports not part of our lists. As soon as all aircraft
  using that station are sold we should delete it.

Codes: [CRASH] [MAJOR] [MEDIUM] [MINOR]
(none?)

TODO:
Check if there are things we have added but haven't been added to save/load yet!!!!

Airports
--------
+ Define a maximum number of airplanes per airport type
  NB: This also depends on the distance between airports, speed and capacity of airplanes
+ Optimize airport combinations for best distance/profits
+ Don't re-add airport we just removed
+ FindSuitableAirportSpot - in early years with low max speeds we may need to adjust max/min distance
+ Let min acceptance limit also depend on number of airports we already have
+ Routes where 1 airport has a lot higher amount of cargo than the other should have orders
  where the low cargo airport doesn't have full load order.
+ If one of the airports of a route can't get upgraded for some reason try to add an airport
  somewhere else so we can connect same types of airports for a route. After that delete the
  old airport unless its real profitable.
+ If both airports of a route have been upgraded then we should check if we should upgrade
  all airplanes on that route if the new allows big airplanes and the old didn't.
+ If we have the max amount of airplanes then analyze the routes with best profits
  and if they can use more airplanes then remove airplanes from the lowest performing
  airports and add them there.
+ Upgrading: later in the game with bigger cities it may be difficult to upgrade because we have
  a fixed diameter of 15 from the center that may be all built full.
+ Upgrading: set a max amount of times that we try to upgrade an airport (since we are temporary
  closing aiports when we try to upgrade).
+ Check for a minimum distance between our airports even after upgrading.
  I think there is a distance list that we need to update too.

Aircraft
--------
+ Handle low reliability
+ Don't remove all aircraft from the same route all at once
+ Use groups for all using the same route
  - Evaluate profits per group
  - Favor capacity and speed over cost with high distance and good acceptance
+ ManageAirRoutes: When maintenance costs are on we should set low profit limit too at least
  the yearly costs.
+ Start of year save profit of last year, move profit saved year before to profits year before
  That way we can compare 2 full years of profits.
+ Instead of trying to sell vehicle again and again we could probably try AIVehicle::GetState
  if state is VS_IN_DEPOT we can sell it.
+ When infrastructure maintenance is on it is very important to sell vehicles as soon as possible.
  Listen to event vehicle in depot and then start the sell routine.
+ Once in a while check the route lists for invalid aircraft. Even thought we are listening to
  the crashed events it's possible that we miss a crash or an aircraft gets invalid for whatever
  reason. So check the route lists and remove invalid aircraft.
+ Check for changes in settings:
  e.g. when breakdowns setting changes add/remove maintenance orders
+ If breakdowns are off then don't replace them at reaching old age but only if it can be
  replaced by a better one.
+ Debug: check the list of sent to depot vehicles for ones that we can't seem to sell.

Building
--------
AIAI doesn't use a fixed radius for SafeAddRectangle for determining airport distance instead it
does sqrt(population/100))+15. Look into using something like that.
Build HQ, bribe local authority, advertise etc when needed.
Don't build in towns where competitors are present when that setting is on.

Dev
---
- Make goalscript for ai debugging: send debug data to port etc...
- Split into several files (refactor)
  + Utils - Strings
  + Tile - SafeAddRectangle from Rondje
  + Vehicle general
          - aircraft, trains, ...
  - possibly - constants
			 - requires/imports
- Need month/year function

Debug
-----
- function to show all aircraft on the list for selling
- Option to only show the groups total profit and average not the individual aircraft details.
